



UNIVERSITY OF BENIN, BENIN CITY
FACULTY OF ENGINEERING 
DEPARTMENT OF COMPUTER ENGINEERING 
BETWEEN THE BRAIN OF A NINE YEAR OLD CHILD AND THE COMPUTER WHICH IS MORE POWERFUL FASTER AND INTELLIGENT.

BY
ALPHA KING-LEMUEL OSAHON. 





OPINIONS GIVEN IN CLASS
 -The accommodation of the eye and the evolution of the phone with 3 cameras and above all to make images sharper which is something the human eye can do by just moving closer to the image.
2nd opinion-The computers made today (2021) has been made as a result of failed computers in the past. EXPERT SYSTEM is a system emulating the decision making ability of human expert. 
3rd opinion-Intelligence can be defined as the ability to understand, comprehend and apply concept and ideas. Children learn new information and apply it, artificial intelligence can also learn new things over time.
4th opinion-someone said a 9years old child is more intelligent because of what they see human doing and how the computers work, then if people are learning from me, who is more intelligent (philosopher)
Brain of the 9 years old child and the computer built 2021 which is more powerful. Speed is different from power. power is what it can do ,what capacity does it have using the instances of its either one can  carry a bucket or one cannot ,second order partial differential equation, its either one knows it or not. THE POWER IS JUST NOT THERE.
5th opinion-I’ll say it’s the human brain because the camera was created for one specific purpose only, to take pictures but the human  brain has been created to perform all task and at the same time.
6th opinion- The speed at which the human brains work at doing everything cannot be made to work any slower. Now computers are made to answer math questions with numbers and symbols, but the brain can answer word problems. It can multitask.
7th opinion-I’ll say the human brain is more powerful because we have heard of teenagers that already have like 2 master’s degree, so I feel just like the computer was made for specific purposes if the human brain was made to focus on one achievement alone it would be more powerful than the computer.
8th opinion-Let’s compare Mohammed Ali and the Emperor of China, Mohammed Ali has undergone the necessary training and has the techniques to fight and overthrow the Emperor who only knows how to fight.
9th opinion-The human brain has so many capabilities that will take many updates to get a computer there. With constant practice perfection is born, with this in mind if the brain is made to focus on one thing alone many good things come out that we tend to call geniuses, that’s when you see great men like Einstein, newton achieve so much.
10th opinion-The brain uses chemicals to give instructions, while the computer uses electricity to give instructions.
ANALYSIS
The human brain controls the eye to focus or blur an image whilst making the image very clear and bleak. Over the years this has been made attainable for phone by adding series of cameras to make the image clearer. The 9 years old brain is more powerful than the computer in the case.
Today’s computers are results of computers that have failed over the past so it will be faster than the brain of a human. Also making use of expert system where the system can make decisions emulating ability of an expert. The computer is faster than the 9 years old brain in this case.
Children learn new information and how to apply them. AI is trained to do specific task very well, assuming humans can provide the data to help them learn. They learn to do something but still don’t understand it. The 9 years old brain is more powerful than the computer in the case.
Using the idea that computers can learn faster humans, a computer can read and remember all research on cancer, no human could. The computer is intelligent than the 9 years old brain in this case.
Most cameras have 5-20 megapixels which is often cited as falling short of our on visual system , based on the fact that 20/20 vision, the human eye is able to resolve the equivalent of a 52 megapixel camera. The 9 years old  brain is more powerful than the computer in the case.
Computers of the 21st centuries can actually be used to solve word problems often seen in basic math lessons at schools. The computer is intelligent than the 9 years old brain in this case.
The brain is ten times more energy than a computer. The brain requires less power than a lightbulb.so if the brain is focused on one achievement alone it will be more powerful the computer. . The 9 years old brain is more powerful than the computer in the case.
The computer having been programmed with different techniques to solve questions will always solve questions faster than a nine years old. . The computer is intelligent than the 9 years old brain in this case.

CONCLUSION
                The computer is faster at doing logical things and computations. However , the brain is better at interpreting the outside world and coming up with new ideas. The brain is capable of imagination. The brain is energy-efficient than a computer. So I believe the brain is more powerful and faster than a computer.


